
Page
2
of 2
Assignment Instructions: Module 9 - Goal Programming 
Purpose  The purpose of this assignment is to explore goal programming formulations and solutions. In 
addition, this will help you master the following module outcomes: 
• Formulate multi-objective models. 
• Model multi-objective models. 
• Categorize the type and importance of goals. 
 
Directions The Research and Development Division of the Emax Corporation has developed three new 
products. A decision now needs to be made on which mix of these products should be produced. 
Management wants primary consideration given to three factors: total profit, stability in the 
workforce, and achieving an increase in the company’s earnings next year from the $75 million 
achieved this year. In particular, using the units given in the following table, they want to 
 
Maximize Z = P - 6C - 3D, where  
 
P = total (discounted) profit over the life of the new products, 
C = change (in either direction) in the current level of employment, 
D = decrease (if any) in next year’s earnings from the current year’s level. 
 
The amount of any increase in earnings does not enter into Z, because management is concerned 
primarily with just achieving some increase to keep the stockholders happy. (It has mixed 
feelings about a large increase that then would be difficult to surpass in subsequent years.) 
 
The impact of each of the new products (per unit rate of production) on each of these factors is 
shown in the following table: 
 
Factor 
Unit Contribution 
Goal Units 
Product: 
1 2 3 
Total profit 20 15 25 Maximize Millions of dollars 
Employment 
level 
6 4 5 =50 Hundreds of employees 
Earnings next 
year 
8 7 5 ≥75 Millions of dollars 
 
 
Questions 1. Define y1+ and y1-, respectively, as the amount over (if any) and the amount under (if any) 
the employment level goal. Define y2+ and y2- in the same way for the goal regarding 
earnings next year. Define x1, x2, and x3 as the production rates of Products 1, 2, and 3, 
respectively. With these definitions, use the goal programming technique to express y1+, 
y1- , y2+ and y2-  algebraically in terms of x1, x2, and x3. Also express P in terms of x1, x2, 
and x3. 
2. Express management’s objective function in terms of x1, x2, x3, y1+, y1- , y2+ and y2-. 
3. Formulate and solve the linear programming model. What are your findings? 
Requirements All due dates are included in the Assignment Schedule.  
General Submission Instructions  All work must be your own. Copying other people’s work or from the Internet is a form of 
plagiarism and will be prosecuted as such. 
 
Upload an R markdown file, along with any required .lp files to your git repository. Name your 
file Username_#.ext, where Username is your Kent State User ID (the part before @), and # is 
the Assignment number.  
Provide the link to your git repository for the assignment.  
